[DOCS-1778] Manual serverless trace propagation (#9933)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/serverless/distributed_tracing/serverless_trace_propagation.md

---
title: Serverless Trace Propagation
kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "/tracing/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Explore Datadog APM"
- link: "/tracing/trace_search_and_analytics/#live-search-for-15-minutes"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Live Search"
---

{{< img src="serverless/lambda-non-http-trace.png" alt="Serverless Distributed Non-HTTP Trace"  style="width:100%;" >}}

## Required Setup

Additional instrumentation is sometimes required to see a single, connected trace in Node and Python serverless applications asynchronously triggering Lambda functions. If you are just getting started with monitoring serverless applications in Datadog, first [follow our main installation steps][1] and [read this page on choosing your tracing library][2]. Once you are sending traces from your Lambda functions to Datadog using the [Datadog Lambda Library][3], you may want to follow these steps to connect traces between two Lambda functions in cases such as:

> - Asynchronously triggering Lambda functions via SNS, Kinesis or EventBridge

Reviewer: I think it's worth mentioning what's supported out of box, so people don't confuse themselves and spend unnecessary effort on implementing this.

- Invoking Lambda functions via non-HTTP protocols such as MQTT

To successfully connect trace context between resources sending traces, you need to:

> - Include Datadog trace context in outgoing events. The outgoing event can originate from a host or Lambda function with `dd-trace` installed.

Reviewer: The sample injection code we put out only work in lambda, specifically the `get_dd_trace_context` helper function. The original code you had in the sample projects do work for both though, but they are a little bit more complicated.

- Extract the trace context in the consumer Lambda function.

## Passing Trace Context to Outgoing Events

The following code samples outline how to pass trace context in outgoing events to some technologies in Node and Python:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Python" %}}

In Python, you can use the `get_dd_trace_context` helper function to easily pass tracing context to outgoing events:

```py
import json
import boto3
import os

from datadog_lambda.tracing import get_dd_trace_context  # Datadog tracing helper function

> SNS_CLIENT = boto3.client('sns')

Reviewer: nits, `sns_client` seems more pythonic here.

def handler(event, context):
    SNS_CLIENT.publish(

>         TopicArn = os.getenv('SNS_ARN'),

Reviewer: perhaps `os.getenv('SNS_ARN')` should just be a placeholder, so people don't get confused and thought they must set this env var?

        Message = 'Asynchronously invoking a Lambda function with SNS.',
        MessageAttributes = {
            '_datadog': {
                'DataType': 'String',
                'StringValue': json.dumps(get_dd_trace_context()) # Includes trace context in outgoing message to SNS topic.
            },
        },
    )

> ```

Reviewer: Any reason why don't we give out examples for EventBridge and Kinesis? I felt that in reality most of developers would give us or feel frustrated if there isn't an example to copy&paste. Also feels weird when we have sample extractor code for those.

```js
const AWS = require('aws-sdk');
const { getTraceHeaders } = require("datadog-lambda-js"); // Datadog tracing helper function

const sns = new AWS.SNS();
const eventBridge = new AWS.EventBridge();

module.exports.handler = async event => {
  const _datadog = getTraceHeaders(); // Captures current Datadog trace context.

  var snsParams = {
    Message: JSON.stringify({ data: 'sns' }),
    MessageAttributes: {
      '_datadog': {
        DataType: 'String',
        StringValue: JSON.stringify(_datadog)  // Includes trace context in outgoing message to SNS topic.
      },
    },
    TopicArn: process.env.SNS_ARN
  };

  var eventBridgeParams = {
    Entries: [{
      EventBusName: 'tracing-tests',
      Source: 'tracing-tests-node',
      DetailType: 'transaction',
      Detail: JSON.stringify({ data: 'eventBridge', _datadog }), // Includes trace context in outgoing message to event bus.
    }]
  };
  
  await sns.publish(snsParams).promise();
  await eventBridge.putEvents(eventBridgeParams).promise()
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Extracting Trace Context from Consumer Lambda Functions

> To extract the above trace context from the consumer Lambda function, you need to define an extractor function that runs captures trace context before the execution of your Lambda function handler. To do this, configure the `DD_TRACE_EXTRACTOR` environment variable to point to the location of your extractor function. We recommend you place your extractor methods in the same file as your Lambda function handler, or all in one file, as extractors can be re-used across multiple Lambda functions. These extractors are completely customizable to fit any use case, and we included some sample extractors for common use cases in the next section.

Reviewer: I recommend people put all extractor functions in its own file, which is a good practice (single responsibility principle). Also defining them in the lambda function file can potentially cause circular import problem in some extreme cases.

---
title: Serverless Trace Propagation
kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "/tracing/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Explore Datadog APM"
- link: "/tracing/trace_search_and_analytics/#live-search-for-15-minutes"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Live Search"
---

{{< img src="serverless/lambda-non-http-trace.png" alt="Serverless Distributed Non-HTTP Trace"  style="width:100%;" >}}

## Required Setup

> Additional instrumentation is sometimes required to see a single, connected trace in Node and Python serverless applications asynchronously triggering Lambda functions. If you are just getting started with monitoring serverless applications in Datadog, first [follow our main installation steps][1] and [read this page on choosing your tracing library][2]. Once you are sending traces from your Lambda functions to Datadog using the [Datadog Lambda Library][3], you may want to follow these steps to connect traces between two Lambda functions in cases such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additional instrumentation is sometimes required to see a single, connected trace in Node and Python serverless applications asynchronously triggering Lambda functions. If you are just getting started with monitoring serverless applications in Datadog, [follow our main installation steps][1] and [read this page on choosing your tracing library][2]. Once you are sending traces from your Lambda functions to Datadog using the [Datadog Lambda Library][3], you may want to follow these steps to connect traces between two Lambda functions in cases such as:
```

    PartitionKey: 'test',
    StreamName: 'PLACEHOLDER', // Your Kinesis stream ARN.
  };

  var eventBridgeParams = {
    Entries: [{
      EventBusName: 'tracing-tests',
      Source: 'tracing-tests-node',
      DetailType: 'transaction',
      Detail: JSON.stringify({ data: 'eventBridge', _datadog }), // Includes trace context in outgoing message to event bus.
    }]
  };
  
  await sns.publish(snsParams).promise();
  await kinesis.putRecord(kinesisParams).promise();
  await eventBridge.putEvents(eventBridgeParams).promise()
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Passing Trace Context to Outgoing Events from Hosts

If you aren't passing trace context from your Lambda functions, you can use the following code template in place of the `getTraceHeaders` and `get_dd_trace_context` helper functions to get the current span context. Instructions on how to do this in every runtime are outlined [here][5].

```js
const tracer = require("dd-trace");

exports.handler = async event => {
  const span = tracer.scope().active();
  const _datadog = {}
  tracer.inject(span, 'text_map', _datadog)

  // ...
```

## Extracting Trace Context from Consumer Lambda Functions

> To extract the above trace context from the consumer Lambda function, you need to define an extractor function that runs captures trace context before the execution of your Lambda function handler. To do this, configure the `DD_TRACE_EXTRACTOR` environment variable to point to the location of your extractor function (format is `<FILE NAME>.<FUNCTION NAME>`, e.g. `extractors.sns` if the `sns` extract method is in the `extractors.js` file). We recommend you place your extractor methods all in one file, as extractors can be re-used across multiple Lambda functions. These extractors are completely customizable to fit any use case, and we included some sample extractors for common use cases in the next section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To extract the above trace context from the consumer Lambda function, you need to define an extractor function that runs captures trace context before the execution of your Lambda function handler. To do this, configure the `DD_TRACE_EXTRACTOR` environment variable to point to the location of your extractor function (format is `<FILE NAME>.<FUNCTION NAME>`, for example, `extractors.sns` if the `sns` extract method is in the `extractors.js` file). We recommend you place your extractor methods all in one file, as extractors can be re-used across multiple Lambda functions. These extractors are completely customizable to fit any use case, and we included some sample extractors for common use cases in the next section.
```
